# Goals #

It is instructive to compare the project summaries of VT Crypt and [Jasypt](http://www.jasypt.org/).

**VT Crypt** - VT Crypt is a high level, general purpose Java cryptograhic library that meets the following design goals... flexibility, performance, ease of use.

**Jasypt** - Jasypt is a java library which allows the developer to add basic encryption capabilities to his/her projects with minimum effort, and without the need of having deep knowledge on how cryptography works.

While ease of use is an objective of VT Crypt, it is not the sole or even primary objective.  In order to be a general purpose cryptographic library, a working knowledge of cryptography is assumed in the design.  Additionally, performance and generality distinguish VT Crypt from Jasypt, as seen from the following comparison of hashing a large file in both libraries.

```
// Compute MD5 hash of large file in VT Crypt

// The stream-oriented DigestAlgorithm#digest() method reads data in _chunks_
// to reduce the overall memory footprint for operations on large files
byte[] hash = new MD5().digest(new BufferedInputStream(new FileInputStream(file)));
```


```
// Compute MD5 hash of large file in Jasypt

// Buffer the entire file contents into memory
ByteArrayOutputStream out = new ByteArrayOutputStream();
BufferedInputStream in = null;
try {
  in = new BufferedInputStream(new FileInputStream(file));
  int bufsize = 8092;
  int count = 0;
  byte[] buffer = new byte[bufsize];
  while ((count = in.read(buffer, 0, bufsize)) > 0) {
    out.write(buffer, 0, count);
  }
} finally {
  if (in != null) {
    in.close();
  }
}
// Note the file bytes are passed IN ENTIRETY to the digester
byte[] hash = new StandardByteDigester().digest(out.toByteArray());
```

# Feature Comparison #

## Feature Completeness ##
VT Crypt is a complete cryptographic library:
  * Message digests
  * Symmetric encryption, including password-based encryption (PBE)
  * Asymmetric encryption (public key cryptography)
  * Digital signatures
  * CLI interface

Jasypt lacks support for public key cryptography and digital signatures.

## Thread Safety ##
Jasypt cryptographic provider objects are designed to be thread safe, which facilitates their use in situations where thread safety is required, e.g. as a bean in a Spring context.  VT Crypt objects are _not_ thread safe unless explicitly noted in the documentation, and would require wrapper objects or other thread synchronization strategies to facilitate similar uses.

## Operations on Large Data Streams ##
As clearly demonstrated in the source code comparison above, VT Crypt provides stream-oriented interfaces for cryptographic operations to accommodate operations on large data streams.  There is no such interface to Jasypt objects, which would preclude their use on large data streams due to memory constraints.

## Output Encoding ##
VT Crypt handles output encoding of ciphertext using the [Converter](http://vt-middleware.googlecode.com/svn/vt-crypt/javadoc/vt-crypt-2.0/edu/vt/middleware/crypt/util/Converter.html) interface, which supports base-64 and hex encoding out of the box.  Since all cryptographic objects can take an optional Converter object, extension to support alternative encoding strategies is straightforward.

Jasypt handles output encoding through concrete implementations of provider objects that deal with string input and output, e.g. [StandardStringDigester](http://www.jasypt.org/api/jasypt/apidocs/org/jasypt/digest/StandardStringDigester.html) and [BasicTextEncryptor](http://www.jasypt.org/api/jasypt/apidocs/org/jasypt/util/text/BasicTextEncryptor.html).  This design clearly favors ease of use at the expense of controlling the details of output encoding.

## Compatibility ##
One of the design goals of VT Crypt was to be compatible with other cryptographic toolkits, in particular, OpenSSL.  For example, we tested that PEM-encoded X.509 certificates generated by OpenSSL were readable by VT Crypt and vice versa.  It is unclear whether Jasypt provides such interoperability.