#sidebar vtcryptSidebar

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Version 2.2 =
  * Library now requires Java 1.6
  * Implement clone for algorithms. ([http://code.google.com/p/vt-middleware/issues/detail?id=152 Issue 152])
  * Convert logging from commons-logging to slf4j. ([http://code.google.com/p/vt-middleware/issues/detail?id=128 Issue 128])
  * Add additional X.509 helper methods. ([http://code.google.com/p/vt-middleware/issues/detail?id=126 Issue 126])
  * Support signing and verify signed MACs. ([http://code.google.com/p/vt-middleware/issues/detail?id=125 Issue 125])
  * Add some additional functionality to CryptReader. ([http://code.google.com/p/vt-middleware/issues/detail?id=124 Issue 124])
  * Add some additional support for keys. ([http://code.google.com/p/vt-middleware/issues/detail?id=123 Issue 123])
  * Mark commons-cli as an optional dependency. ([http://code.google.com/p/vt-middleware/issues/detail?id=122 Issue 122])

= Version 2.1.4 =
  * Fix typo that affected X.509 certificate DN parsing capabilities. ([http://code.google.com/p/vt-middleware/issues/detail?id=119 Issue 119])
= Version 2.1.3 =
  * Improve capability for reading encrypted private keys. ([http://code.google.com/p/vt-middleware/issues/detail?id=91&can=1&q=vt-crypt Issue 91])
  * Fix for parsing DER encoding of CRLDistributionPoints. ([http://code.google.com/p/vt-middleware/issues/detail?id=100&can=1&q=vt-crypt Issue 100])
= Version 2.1.2 =
  * Add !EmailAddress to [http://vt-middleware.googlecode.com/svn/vt-crypt/javadoc/vt-crypt-2.1.2/edu/vt/middleware/crypt/x509/types/AttributeType.html AttributeType] enumeration since this attribute commonly appears in X.509 certificate DNs
  * Other misc improvements to support X.509 DN parsing

= Version 2.1.1 =
  * First version available in [http://repo1.maven.org/maven2/edu/vt/middleware/vt-crypt/ Maven Central]
  * Moved maven plugin into separate project
= Version 2.1 =
  * [http://code.google.com/p/vt-middleware/issues/detail?id=1 vt-crypt-1] - Create API for Reading X.509v3 Certificate Extended Properties.
  * [http://code.google.com/p/vt-middleware/issues/detail?id=4 vt-crypt-4] - Keystore Incompatibility with keytool.
  * [http://code.google.com/p/vt-middleware/issues/detail?id=18 vt-crypt-18] - X.509 Certificate DN Formatter.
  * [http://code.google.com/p/vt-middleware/issues/detail?id=33 vt-crypt-33] - Add Support for Property Encryption/Decryption Under Maven

= Version 2.0.1 =
  * Added APL version 2, project is now dual licensed
  * Updated LGPL from version 2.1 to 3.0

= Version 2.0 =
Initial google code release.

== Known Issues ==
  * README.txt was not updated and includes documentation from the 1.5 release.
  * pom.xml incorrectly includes the jdk14 version of the Bouncy Castle provider.